[ CodeStyle ] Add base code style guidelines (#19)
openui/design-system: docs/component-api.md

There will also be framework-specific implementations that either wrap or
emulate a component, with adjustments needed to make the component usable in
React, Svelte, Vue, etc. These implementations are expected to have an API and
output that aligns with the primary implementations.

The OUI components follow these guidelines:

- **Agnostic** - OUI components are free of any framework, CMS, or
  implementation-specific conventions. These are standalone presentational UI
  components that aim to share an interface across frameworks. Any framework,
  CMS, or implementation-specific requirements should be minimized and scoped to
  that implementation.
  - For example, a Svelte implementation will have `onclick`, React will have
    `onClick`, and Vue will have `@click`, but they all include `click`. This
    would also be true for a custom event name and for attribute names.
- **Predictable APIs** - OUI provides consistent, clear component APIs in order to
  provide a smooth user developer experience.
- **Composition over inheritance** - OUI adheres to the composition over
  inheritance principle in order to create clean, extensible components that

>   aren't tied to specific contexts or content.

Reviewer: I think this principle could benefit from an example or a link to a generic explanation of the principle in a UI component context. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Composition_over_inheritance provides some context, but is using object oriented classes as examples. Maybe there's a better explanation somewhere.

- **Future changes** - Utilizing a consistent language means that future changes
  and improvements are as easy as find-and-replace.

The library adhreres to the following API naming conventions:

#### Component names

The component names are prefixed with `oui-`, followed by the component name,
e.g. `oui-badge`.

#### Variants

- `variant` should be used for primary *stylistic* variations of a component,
  such as (e.g. `variant="primary"` or `variant="success"`). variant should be
  used as the primary variable used to manipulate the component style.
- `inverted` should be used consistently for stylistic variations that "invert"
  the color schemes (e.g. <oui-heading inverted=true>) to work on a darker
  background. Note: this is different than dark/light mode support, which is
  handled elsewhere.
- `size` should be used for adjusting size attributes (e.g. `size="sm"` or
  `size="lg"`). Default to `sm`, `lg`, `xl` with `md` being the undeclared
  default. Note: use abbreviated t-shirt sizes:
  - `sm` = Small
  - `xs` = Extra small
  - `md` = Medium
  - `md2` = Another Medium Value
  - `lg` = Large
  - `xl` = Extra large

>   - `xxl` = Extra, extra large

Reviewer: It's just an idea or input for discussion, but our team recently switched to pixel based size names for better clarity and extensibility:

```yml
padding-8: 8px # 0.5rem under the hood
height-48: 48px # 3rem under the hood
```

This allows to later add values in between without upsetting the scale system and allows to measure pixels in design tools and applying this directly in a class name while under the hood, using rem ensures that the users font-size settings in the browser are respected. We're using 16px as the default font-size for conversion from px to rem.

- `spacing` should be used for adjusting spacing between elements (e.g.
  `spacing="condensed"`).
- `behavior` should be used for functional variations of a pattern, such as
  <oui-alert behavior="dismissible">. behavior should be used as the default for
  introducing a functional variant to a component, and should be used for
  mutually exclusive behaviors.
- `is[Behavior]` should be used in conjunction with behavior to add additional
  behavioral variants to a component (e.g. `<oui-alert behavior="dismissible"
  isDraggable="true" isFadable="true">`). `is[Behavior]` should be the default
  convention, but sometimes deviating from the is language is necessary (for
  instance, `<oui-accordion allowMultipleOpen="true">`). Whatever the language,
  the name should be clear to the user whether they're toggling something on or
  off.
- `align` should be used for aligning content, and should include `left`,
  `center`, `right` if needed.
- `verticalAlign` should be used for aligning content vertically, and should

>   include `top`, `center`, `bottom`.

Reviewer: Should we use logical properties here as a default or as an alternative?

```suggestion
- `inlineAlign` should be used for aligning content, and should include `inline-start`,
  `center`, `inline-end` if needed.
- `blockAlign` should be used for aligning content vertically, and should
  include `block-start`, `center`, `block-end`.
```

_Naming is probably not ideal, just wanted to make an example._

Author: Good point- I think a logical-first strategy makes sense. To continue bikeshedding, how about matching CSS grid values?

```suggestion
- `justify` should be used for aligning content on the inline axis, and should include `start`,
  `center`, and `end`.
- `align` should be used for aligning content on the block axis, and should
  include `start`, `center`, and `end`.
```

### Text, Labels, Titles

- Default to text for strings of text (e.g. `<oui-badge text="Badge Text">`).
- Default to title for headings, such as `<oui-hero title="Hero Title">`.
- Use description for non-heading text that accompanies a component, such as
  `<oui-hero title="Hero Title" description="This is accompanying text for the
  hero">`.
- For form-related components, use the semantic label or legend, such as

>   `<oui-text-field label="First Name">`.

Reviewer: I'm wondering here if it this generally is the direction that components will be authored. Especially for headings, it would always be necessary to also allow at least a `headingLevel` property. It leaves authors with very little control over the markup, especially if it's required to include some icon or offer the header as a hash-link for reference.

```html
<oui-hero>
  <h2>
    <a href="#this-title-specifically">Hero title</a>
  </h2
</oui-hero>
```

Would offer more composition possibilities but makes styling more complicated and less stable.

Author: This is a really good question, and both styles have their advantages. I think this also has implications in the composability section below. I'd welcome more input on which style to favor.

  component.
- Use slots when rich text is supported.
- Don't support both an attribute and a slot for the same content.
- Avoid having some content in an attribute, and some content in a slot.

## HTML

### HTML principles and conventions

- **Use semantic markup.** That means using the `<button>` tag rather than `<div
  onclick="toggle()">` when a button is required, an `<a>` tag when a link is
  required, and so on.
- **Clarity over brevity.** Developers should be able to understand what's going
  on with markup at a glance. Avoid cryptic abbreviations and nicknames, add
  proper indenting & spacing, and use clear comments.
- **Native HTML elements** (e.g. `<input>`, `<select>`) should be preferred over
  custom elements whenever possible. Native elements provide a slew of
  functionality and accessibility best practices out of the box.

## CSS

### CSS design principles

- **Portable** - The CSS architecture uses CSS classes for styling (versus CSS-in-JS
  tooling) in order to ensure the CSS is portable across frameworks and web
  technologies.
- **Clarity over brevity** - CSS class naming conventions are verbose, but they

>   deliver clarity, legibility, and reslience in exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Clarity over brevity** - CSS class naming conventions are verbose, but they
  deliver clarity, legibility, and resilience in exchange.
```

  scoped and to avoid unintended style bleeding.
- **Limit chaining and multiple selectors** - Chaining and descendant selectors
  should be avoided wherever possible in order to keep CSS as DOM-independent
  and modular as possible.

### CSS conventions

OUI follows a [BEM](http://getbem.com/introduction/)-like syntax, extending it
further to follow more of
[BEMIT](http://csswizardry.com/2015/08/bemit-taking-the-bem-naming-convention-a-step-further/)-like
conventions.

#### BEM syntax

BEM stands for "Block Element Modifier". Here's a breakdown of what that means:

- **Block** is the primary component block (e.g. .oui-c-button)
- **Element** is a child of the primary block (e.g. .oui-c-button__text)
- **Modifier** is a variation of a component style (e.g. .oui-c-button--secondary)

OUI extends BEM's conventions to create even more explicit, encapsulated class
names.

#### Global namespace

OUI uses a global namespace of `oui-` prefix to all styles that come from the
design system. This is done to:

  - Avoid naming collisions with code coming from other sources
  - Clarify the source of the code, distinguishing OUI markup/styles from code

>     coming from other codebases and libraries.

Reviewer: Is there a possibility to customise this global namespace, respectively should we plan on supporting such a feature? Coincidentally, a sub-brand of the company I'm working at currently uses exactly the same prefix for their internal Design System. 

Also just for awareness, "oui" means "yes" in French.

### Class prefixes

In addition to the global `oui-` namespace, OUI uses class prefixes to provide
additional clarity to the job a given class plays. OUI uses the following class
prefix conventions:

- **c** - for UI components, such as `.oui-c-button`
- **l** - for layout-specific component styles, such as `.oui-l-container`

> - **u** - for utilities, such as `.oui-u-margin-bottom-none`

Reviewer: Does this not contradict the clarity over brevity rule above?

Author: It does. I also wonder if this breakdown will be useful in this context - will users be typing out (or copying) component classnames? Will we be providing utility classes?

- **is** - and has- for specific states, such as `.oui-is-active`

### Logical properties

Use logical properties (`inset-block-start`, `margin-inline`) over physical
properties (`top`, `margin-left`), to allow the components to be used in
different writing systems.

### Design tokens

> TODO: Define guidelines for design tokens

Author: @bradfrost Would you be able to suggest guidelines here?

Reviewer 2: @jamesnw Yep, I'll likely handle this as a separate issue and file. Historically, we've had a `THEMING.md` file that gets into all of that architecture.

Author: Great! I removed it from this document.

#### Tier 1 Design tokens

#### Tier 2 Design tokens

## JavaScript

### Events

> TODO

Author: I think there are likely others in this group who have thought through the event and method naming conventions more than I have, and would welcome their input on what should be in a guidelines document.

- **Modifier** is a variation of a component style (e.g. .oui-c-button--secondary)

OUI extends BEM's conventions to create even more explicit, encapsulated class
names.

#### Global namespace

OUI uses a global namespace of `oui-` prefix to all styles that come from the
design system. This is done to:

  - Avoid naming collisions with code coming from other sources
  - Clarify the source of the code, distinguishing OUI markup/styles from code
    coming from other codebases and libraries.

### Class prefixes

In addition to the global `oui-` namespace, OUI uses class prefixes to provide
additional clarity to the job a given class plays. OUI uses the following class
prefix conventions:

- **c** - for UI components, such as `.oui-c-button`
- **l** - for layout-specific component styles, such as `.oui-l-container`
- **u** - for utilities, such as `.oui-u-margin-bottom-none`
- **is** - and has- for specific states, such as `.oui-is-active`

### Logical properties

Use logical properties (`inset-block-start`, `margin-inline`) over physical
properties (`top`, `margin-left`), to allow the components to be used in
different writing systems.

> ## JavaScript

Author: This diverges somewhat from what we discussed in the working section- I think it's important that native-like events keep the native event names, for easier integration into form libraries, etc. But I would welcome feedback!
